.TH Canto-curses 1 "Canto-curses"

.SH NAME
Canto-curses \- An ncurses frontend for canto-daemon

.SH COMMAND LINE USAGE
canto-curses (options)

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\-V
Print version info and exit.

.TP
\-h/--help
Print usage help

.TP
\-v
Enable verbose logging (debug)

.TP
\-D/--dir [directory]
Change base directory for canto-daemon (default: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/canto)

.TP
\-\-noplugins
Disable all plugins

.TP
\-\-enableplugins 'plugin1 plugin2...'
Enable these plugins (overrides --noplugins)

.TP
\-\-disableplugins 'plugin1 plugin2...'
Disable these plugins

.TP
\-a/--address [IP]
Attempt to connect to address instead of local Unix socket, defaults to
loopback (127.0.0.1)

.TP
\-p/--port [port]
Use port when listening with -a

.TP
\-l
Append pid to log filename (debug)

.SH GETTING STARTED

.TP
.B : (colon)
Will bring up the canto-curses command line

.TP
.B :help
Will bring up the internal help (more complete list of keybinds and commands)

.SH BASIC COMMANDS

.TP
.B :set browser [browser]
Set your favorite browser

.TP
.B :set browser.text [True|False]
Set this to True if you're using a text based browser like elinks so canto-curses knows to give up the screen to it.

.TP
.B :add [URL] (username=user password=secret) (name="Some name")
Subscribe to a feed, with optional arguments

.TP
.B :del
Unsubscribe from the selected feed

.SH BASIC KEYBINDS

.TP
.B j/k up/down
.br
Previous item / Next item

.TP
.B J/K
.br
Previous tag / Next tag

.TP
.B PgUp/PgDown
.br
Previous page / Next page

.TP
.B g
.br
Goto the selected item in your browser

.TP
.B <space>
.br
Open / close the internal item reader

.TP
.B c/v
.br
Collapse (minimize) / uncollapse the selected tag

.TP
.B C/V
.br
Collapse (minimize) / uncollapse all visible tags

.SH ADVANCED USAGE

Canto-curses supports a lot more features like categorizing feeds/tags, filtering and sorting, searching, and more that can be discovered with
.B :help

It also supports a variety of
.B plugins
that can add a lot of extra functionality, which are included with this install
or available on the homepage.

.SH PLUGINS

Plugins are packaged in <prefix>/canto/plugins (i.e. /usr/lib/canto/plugins)
and can be enabled by copying them into your configuration directory (i.e.
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/canto/plugins). Many of them have configuration in them, so
you may want to open the files to make changes. Here are a few example plugins
included with the canto-curses source.

.TP
autocmd.py
Issue commands automatically on startup (useful to change configuration on startup)

.TP
reader-extras.py
Adds extra content to some feeds, also useful to see what's included in a feed.

.TP
xtermtitle.py
Set the title of xterm compatible terminals on startup, and optionally include selected item title

.TP
yank.py
Adds
.B :yank-link (defaults to 'y')
and
.B :yank-title
commands (needs xclip installed)

.TP
favorites.py
A proof of concept user "favorites" tag, that can change the appearance of certain items selected by the user.

.TP
smartlink.py
A plugin that lets you define specific handlers for links based on the URL or the output of `file` on the downloaded content. Useful for listening to podcast enclosures or displaying PDF/image/other content in a dedicated program.

.TP
cleantitle.py
A plugin that helps strip bad content (newlines, HTML, etc.) out of item titles

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/canto/curses-log

Canto-curses log file.

.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/canto/plugins/

Canto-curses enabled plugins directory

.TP
.I /usr/lib/canto/plugins
Default packaged plugin directory.


.SH HOMEPAGE
http://codezen.org/canto-ng

.SH AUTHOR
Jack Miller <jack@codezen.org>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR canto-daemon (1)
.BR canto-remote (1)
